Abstract
The first DARPA experiment with wireless mobile Internet – the Packet Radio Network or PRNET – was completely independent of the infrastructure. This model was consistent with DARPA military goals as the PRNET was designed to support tactical operations far away from any wired infrastructure. Beside autonomy, the main challenge was mobility and radio portability. Scarcity of spectrum was not an issue, in contrast with the ARPANET quest to utilize those 50 kbps Telpak trunks more efficiently. Today, the closest civilian descendents of the PRNET are vehicular networks and smart phone based Personal Area Networks. In either case, the wired infrastructure turns out to play a major role. Moreover, spectrum scarcity has now become the most important challenge (while, ironically, the wired Internet has plenty of bandwidth). In this paper we examine this interplay between wired and wireless and extract a message for the design of a more efficient Future Wireless Internet. We focus on the vehicular network since this field is better established and commercially more viable than that of personal, P2P communications among Smartphones. We are confident however that many of our observations will transfer also to smart phone/infrastructure synergy.

Specifically, in this paper we identify the urban Internet infrastructure role in the support of emerging vehicular applications and identify the Core Internet services matching the services in the vehicle grid. As the vehicular applications range from e-mail and voice over IP to emergency operations (natural disaster, terrorist attack, etc.), the type of assistance requested from the infrastructure will vary. A short list includes: (a) addressing (e.g. geo-addressing); (b) directory service, service discovery, mobility management; (c) resource and congestion management; (d) path redundancy; (e) delay tolerant operations; (f) mobile sensor data access and search from the internet, and; (g) anonymity, privacy and incentives.

After the review of vehicular applications and properties, we will offer an Internet history perspective to help understand how the mobile wireless network field has evolved from the early ARPANET and PRNET days. This will reveal trends that can help predict the future of the wireless Internet.

Introduction
Vehicle communications are becoming increasingly popular, propelled by navigation safety requirements and by the investments of car manufacturers and Public Transport Authorities. The essential vehicle grid components (radios, Access Points, spectrum, standards, etc.) are coming into place finalizing the concept of VANET (Vehicular Adhoc Network) and paving the way to unlimited opportunities for car-to-car applications. Safe navigation has now become an important priority for Car Manufacturers as well as Municipal Transportation Authorities. New standards are emerging (DSRC and more recently IEEE 802.11p) and several International Consortia and well publicized testbeds were recently established to promote vehicular communications and demonstrate their feasibility and effectiveness. In this paper, we look at the likely trajectory of these emerging applications. We seek to predict how the VANET will evolve in the future and, at the same time, to explain how we got here as this will help corroborate our predictions. Our specific interest is to examine the role of the Internet infrastructure in supporting vehicular applications. As a difference from typical MANETs (Mobile Ad hoc Net works), in the VANET the Wired Internet infrastructure is omnipresent and readily accessible via WiFi, DSRC, WiMAX, 3G, LTE, etc. The wired Internet support will vary depending on the vehicular application. During a Katrina type emergency, the wired infrastructure is likely to be destroyed and the VANET cannot count on it – it must operate autonomously. This is the closest we get to a pure MANET. For content sharing (e.g., advertisements, entertainment) applications, however, the vehicle relies on Internet access to download files from Internet Servers. Peer to peer, “opportunistic” networking among vehicles will be used to distribute the file only after some vehicle has downloaded from the Internet. In fact, in the future, considerable content will be played on mobile terminals (vehicle screens or pedestrian phones). It is thus important to understand how the wired Internet can best accommodate the new requirements and networking styles (e.g., P2P dissemination, geo-routing) introduced by the “mobile” applications at the edge.

The “business as usual” solution of treating mobile, wireless networks as appendages attached via edge gateways and to delegate all interface functions and services to the edge is becoming non economical. There are benefits in extending the services to the Internet backbone itself using mesh networks, overlays and virtualization. We envision that the emerging mobile networking will impact the future Internet design in the following areas: (a) addressing (e.g. geo-addressing); (b) directory service support and service discovery; (c) resource and congestion management; (d) path redundancy and network coding; (e) delay tolerant operations support; (f) mobile sensor data access and search from the Internet (g) anonymity, privacy and incentives.

The following sections review related work and then describe two research directions, namely: (1) emerging applications and (2) vehicle oriented Internet services. Representative vehicular applications have been selected to illustrate how mobile services can be extended into the Internet core, beyond edge gateways, as a first step towards the design of a full fledged mobile vehicular architecture. In particular, since mobility plays a key role in vehicular protocol design and performance, an important effort must go into the development of realistic motion models.

Section snippets
Related work
Much of the existing literature on Inter-Vehicle Communications (IVCs) is navigation safety related. A good survey of recent physical layer technologies for IVCs can be found in [18]. For scalable delivery, researchers have proposed geo-routing and further, have focused on exploiting innate characteristics of vehicular networks such as high, but restricted mobility. For example, Urban Multi-hop Broadcast (UMB) [14] features a form of redundant flood suppression where the furthest node in the

Vehicular applications and Internet requirements
Vehicles in a grid are only a few hops away from the infrastructure (WiFi, cellular, satellite, etc.). Protocol and application design must account for easy access to the Internet during normal operation. At the same time, the vehicles are among the few communications nodes that can continue to operate when the Internet goes away, during urban emergency, with enough reserve power to establish a vehicle based emergency network. To this end we examine innovative peer to peer content sharing

Routable addresses and position based addressing
Addressing is a major challenge in the management of vehicular network mobility and an important enabler of interconnection to and through the Internet. First, we must distinguish between Unique Identifier (e.g., license plate#; Vehicle-ID#), and; Routable Address (geo-coordinates, or; unique ID (typically IP address) for conventional routing, e.g. AODV). It is becoming apparent that the dominant form of routing in the vehicle grid will be position based routing (e.g., geo-routing). This is

Historical perspectives and future trends
At the beginning, in the early 70’s, the Internet (then called ARPANET) and the wireless packet switching counterpart (the Packet Radio NET or PRNET) started on different journeys, with different missions. ARPANET was targeting better trunk line efficiency and resource sharing of expensive computer resources. Over the years, this was achieved by building an increasingly powerful backbone with gigabit/s fiber links and terabit/s routers and ground trunks. PRNET was targeting mobility,

Conclusions
This paper has addressed advanced wireless network architectures and applications focused on vehicle networks. The legacy for these designs comes from the early ARPA studies of Packet Radio networks in the 1970’s when many of the core multi-access technologies were developed, namely, ALOHA, CSMA, and related extensions. That early focus was on analytical models as well as testbed implementations and experiments that led to ALOHANET, PRNET, etc. Among the lessons learned from those early studies